How to Be a Storm Chaser.
Don't feel like hiding out in the cellar?
Head outside and be a storm chaser, instead!
You will need Portable VHF radio Vehicle Maps
Navigation equipment Partner Caution and camera.
Chasing storms is extremely dangerous -- obey
all law enforcement instructions and posted
signs.
Step 1.
Between April and June, head to a location
in Tornado Alley, a swath of land in the central
U.S. known for its active storm season.
Step 2.
Go online to find the frequency for your local
transmitter of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration's Weather Radio All Hazards,
or NWR.
Then, listen for updates about severe weather
nearby.
Check online for additional information on
developing weather systems.
Step 3.
When you hear of severe weather nearby, head
toward the storm.
Keep listening to NWR to stay abreast of the
storm’s direction and use maps and navigation
equipment to approach the weather system.
Rely on at least one other storm chaser to
share driving and navigation duties.
Step 4.
Approach severe weather cautiously as a storm
chaser: flash floods, hail, and lightning
can all prove hazardous on the open road.
Take extreme care when driving towards standing
water, which can cause you to hydroplane and
lose control of your vehicle.
Keep an eye out for downed power lines.
Step 5.
Found a storm to chase?
Ride alongside it.
If you can do so safely, pull off the road,
put on your hazards, and document the weather
with a camera.
Head away from the storm when lightning starts
striking every 15 seconds or hail begins falling
in a sheet.
Stay inside the car while you’re shooting
to protect yourself from being struck by lightning.
Step 6.
Once you’ve called it a day as a storm chaser,
visit a National Weather Service branch online
or in person and submit your record of the
storm to promote an understanding of severe
weather systems.
Then, take a deep breath and revel in the
thrill of the chase!
Did you know In 2009, the U.S. National Weather
Service recorded 1,156 tornadoes in the U.S.
and Puerto Rico.